# django-supercharge

To install:

`pip install git+https://github.com/weholt/django-supercharged`

Then add `supercharged` to your INSTALLED_APPS list in `settings.py`.

**NOTE! This is a very crude method of adding a bunch of files and functionality at once. The code is still under heavy development, and all the code generated needs manual control afterwards. 
It's just meant to save you time for operations you do often when it comes to creating apps and then re-organizing it to fit a bigger project, and to speed up creating CRUD-base for your models.**


## About

Supercharge is a reusable Django app meant to help development, heavy influenced by the Django Style Guide (https://github.com/HackSoftware/Django-Styleguide), by providing a few management commands:

- `startbigapp`: which creates an app according to the mentioned style guide, with `selectors.py` for ORM queries, and `services.py` for more elaborate processing and operations. All views and models are
implemented as packages instead of simple *.py files, and each model should be kept in a separate file. Views per model should also be kept in a separate file related to that model. The app will also have
its own `urls.py` file for urlpatterns, which can then be included in the global `urls.py`. It will come allready setup with a `base.html` based on Bootstrap 5, with both FontAwesome Icons 6.0 & Bootstrap Icons, HTMX and AlpineJS javascript support.

- `crud_model`: creates the base for a lot of the required files related to a model, including templates & views.


## An example

`$ python manage.py startbigapp mega_app`

This will create a new app called mega_app with all the bells and whistles described above. To add a model to that app, run:

`$ python manage.py crud_model mega_app Employee -f name:str -f age:int -f email:email -f active:bool`

This will create a new model called Employee with the following fields name, age, email & active. It will create a folder in the templates folder of mega_app, with a sub-folder called employee,
containing base templates for CRUD-operations related to that model. It will add url entries to the app-related `urls.py`, add it to the local `admin.py`. **NOTE! You'll have to add the include statement
for your apps urlpatterns in the global `urls.py` yourself at the moment**. 

Now run:

`$ python manage.py makemigrations `

`$ python manage.py migrate`

and head over to the admin to see it all in action. Now that saved you a lot of typing, ie. time. ;-)

## The Service layer aka services.py

This is a controversial topic in Django, but I agree with the Style Guide above, and think it's a good idea to put more elaborate queries and operations into a separate layer in the project, in our case `services.py`.

Supercharged comes with an optional implementation strategy which furthers abstracts some of the logic behind a `ServiceProcessResult`, but this is not nearly finished and should not be used, - unless you're very curious. But don't say I didn't warn you.

## Themes

Django Supercharged also comes with a few "themes", namely a prepared version of Bootstrap 5 and Tailwind UI CSS you can use in your projects. Those are in the `themes`-folder.

To use it just add 

`supercharged.themes.bootstrap`

to your INSTALLED_APPS, and make sure it comes first in the list of apps to override any other `base.html` that might be present. 

**NOTE! Only Bootstrap support is implemented in the templates generated by `crud_model` and `startbigapp` 
so if you want to use TailWind you have to adjust those templates yourself.**

Also included are further styling of the Bootstrap CSS included as optional CSS from the Bootswatch project. To use it set this variable in your `settings.py`, like so:

`BOOTSTRAP_THEME = "journal"`

and add the `supercharged.middleware.BootstrapThemeMiddleware` middleware:

Available themes are:

- cerulean
- cosmo
- cyborg
- darkly
- flatly
- journal
- litera
- lumen
- lux
- materia
- minty
- morph
- pulse
- quartz
- regent
- sandstone
- simplex
- sketchy
- slate
- solar
- spacelab
- superhero
- united
- vapor
- yeti
- zephyr

## Extending the templates

Most likely you'll want to add a bit more flesh to the base template of your site. Create your own `my_base.html` in the root of the templates folder of your app, extend the `base_sceleton.html` like so:

```
{% extends 'base_sceleton.html' %}

{% block page %}
<!-- The content placed before the next block will be repeated on every page. This is a nice place for a navbar for instance -->

    {% block content %}
    <!-- here comes the dynamic content >
    {% endblock content %}

<!-- this part will be repated and can hold stuff like footers etc. -->
{% endblock page%}
```

and then just extend `my_base.html` in the templates of your app instead of `base.html`, like so:

```
{% extends 'my_base.html' %}

{% block content %}
{% endblock %}
```